+++
title = "인생에 대한 격언들(짧은 것들만)"
date = "2008-01-18T15:23:00+0900"
categories = ["일상사"]
tags = ["인생","격언"]
description = ""
+++
<span class="copyright_entry" style="display:block;" title="인생에 대한 격언들(짧은 것들만)@@**@@http://shed.egloos.com/1699981"></span>
<ul>
 <br>
 <li>You must live as you think. If not, sooner or later you will end by thinking as you have lived.(Paul Valery) 생각하는 대로 살지 않으면, 머지않아 사는데로 생각하게 된다</li>
 <br>
 <li>There are two means of refuge from the miseries of life: music and cats.(Albert Schweitzer) 인생의 비극에서 탈출하는 방법으로 2가지가 있다. 그것은 바로 음악과 고양이</li>
 <br>
 <li>The good life is inspired by love and guided by knowledge.(Bertrand Russell) 참된 삶은 사랑에 의해 격려받고 지식에 의해 이끌어진다</li>
 <br>
 <li>When you have only two pennies left in the world, buy a loaf of bread with one, and a lily with the other.(Chinese proverb)</li>
 <br>
 <li>Too many people are thinking of security instead of opportunity. They seem to be more afraid of life than death.(James F. Bymes)</li>
 <br>
 <li>Everything has been figured out, except how to live.(Jean-Paul Sartre)</li>
 <br>
 <li>You don't get to choose how you're going to die. Or when. You can only decide how you're going to live. Now.(Joan Baez)</li>
 <br>
 <li>Education is not preparation for life; education is life itself.(John Dewey) 교육은 미래의 인생을 위한 준비가 아니라 삶 자체다. </li>
 <br>
 <li>Life is what happens to you while you're busy making other plans.(John Lennon) 인생은 당신이 다른 계획을 구상하느라 정신없을 때 발생하는 사건들이다.</li>
 <br>
 <li>Without discipline, there's no life at all.(Katharine Hepburn) 역경이 없으면 인생도 없다</li>
 <br>
 <li>What we call the secret of happiness is no more a secret than our willingness to choose life.(Leo Buscaglia) </li>
 <br>
 <li>Our life is what our thoughts make it.(Marcus Aurelius)</li>
 <br>
 <li>Study as if you were going to live forever; live as if you were going to die tomorrow.(Maria Mitchell) </li>
 <br>
 <li>Nothing in life is to be feared. It is only to be understood.(Marie Curie) </li>
 <br>
 <li>Good friends, good books and a sleepy conscience: this is the ideal life.(Mark Twain) 좋은 친구와 좋은 책, 그리고 살아있는 양심이야말로 가장 이상적인 인생이다.</li>
 <br>
 <li>Tell me, what is it you plan to do with your one wild and precious life?(Mary Oliver)</li>
 <br>
 <li>Where there is love there is life.(Mohandas K. Gandhi)</li>
 <br>
 <li>Happiness is not so much in having as sharing. We make a living by what we get, but we make a life by what we give.(Norman MacEwan)</li>
 <br>
 <li>Live your life and forget your age.(Norman Vincent Peale)</li>
 <br>
 <li>It's faith in something and enthusiasm for something that makes a life worth living.(Oliver Wendell Holmes)</li>
 <br>
 <li>The truth is always exciting. Speak it, then. Life is dull without it.(Pearl S. Buck)</li>
 <br>
 <li>We are always getting ready to live but never living.(Ralph Waldo Emerson)</li>
 <br>
 <li>Life is a progress, and not a station.(Ralph Waldo Emerson)</li>
 <br>
 <li>What we call the secret of happiness is no more a secret than our willingness to choose life.(Leo Buscaglia) </li>
 <br>
 <li>The principle of life is that life responds by corresponding; your life becomes the thing you have decided it shall be.(Raymond Charles Barker)</li>
 <br>
 <li>The purpose of life is a life of purpose.(Robert Frost)</li>
 <br>
 <li>In three words I can sum up everything I've learned about life: it goes on.(Robert Frost)</li>
 <br>
 <li>Lives, like money, are spent. What are you buying with yours?(Roy H. Williams)</li>
 <br>
 <li>Life would be much easier if I had the source code.(Unknown)</li>
 <br>
 <li>Life is the flower for which love is the honey.(Victor Hugo)</li>
 <br>
 <li>We make a living by what we get, but we make a life by what we give.(Winston Churchill)</li>
</ul> 
<!--
       <rdf:RDF xmlns:rdf="http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#"
		    xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/dc/elements/1.1/"
		    xmlns:trackback="http://madskills.com/public/xml/rss/module/trackback/">
       <rdf:Description
	        rdf:about="http://shed.egloos.com/1699981"
	        dc:identifier="http://shed.egloos.com/1699981"
	        dc:title="인생에 대한 격언들(짧은 것들만)"
	        trackback:ping="http://shed.egloos.com/tb/1699981"/>
       </rdf:RDF>
       -->

<ul></ul>